Suppose you're taking measurements
of a physical quantity that you know
to be smooth and slowly varying.
For instance, the tide level at the sea or
the blood pressure of a patient.
Because of the measurement
process your values,
the values that you actually measure are
corrupted by some form of additive noise.
Which at this point we could just say
it's some extraneous quantity that
perturbs the measured value.
So what you get in the end instead of
the smooth curve of the first panel
is a curve where you see that there's
really fast wiggles that you interpret
as being a noise corruption.
And the question is can we process
this data as a discrete time-signal,
so that most of the noise is removed and
we get back a measurement this in line
with our expectations of smoothness.
The first idea is to replace each
sample of the average sequence
with a local average.
Averages are usually good when you want to
eliminate random variations
that you don't know much about.
So for instance, assume a situation
where we process the signal and
the process signal is at each sample
the simple two point average of
the current sample and the past sample.
Well it could very well be that the two
point average is not enough to remove
most of the noise.
And so in general, we could take longer
averages by considering the output
samples to be the average of
capital M points from the input.
If we try to do that experimentally,
we can see immediately that the strategy
works for increasing values of M.
So if we take just the two point average,
we see than we don't really
get a lot of leverage.
You can see in blue the original signal,
and in red,
the filtered output and with a two point
average, we still have a lot of wiggles.
But as we increase the number of points
that we use to compute the average,
we can see that we start to remove
a little bit more of the noise.
And by a 12 point average we already can
see that the strategy already pays off.
We have I'll write this mood without
the signal requires significantly, and
if we're willing to increase
the average up to say,
100 point, then we can see that the signal
we get the output is actually very smooth.
You will also see that with
respect to the original signal,
the output has been delayed
by a certain amount.
This is the price we pay
because we are actually
using up 100 samples to
compute the output value.
So in a sense we are accumulating
a certain delay with respect to the input
because we're averaging from the past.
We will see this in more detail later on.
What we have done is really
a filtering operation, and
if we want to compute the input's
response, we need to do nothing
more than just put the delta function
inside our averaging machine,
and it's very easy to see that if we
put the delta function in here, this,
remember, is the averaging
relationship that we saw before.
We have that the impulse
response is equal to 1 over M for
n that goes from 0 to M minus 1,
and 0 otherwise.
It's easy to convince yourself
that in this summation there
is only one non zero term,
which is the one where n is equal to k.
Since the index goes from 0 to n minus 1.
If your value of n is outside of this
range, none of these terms will be non 0,
and you will get 0.
If we plot the impulse response,
it looks like this.
So you will have a string of samples that
are equal to 1 over m from 0 to M minus 1.
So what we had learned experimentally,
is that the smoothing effect of the filter
is proportional to the length
of the impulse response.
As a consequence of that a number of
operations that we have to perform to
compute each output sample and
also the storage,
because we have to keep in the memory of
our processing unit the past values in
order to be able to compute
the average while both of
these quantities are proportional
to the length of the filter.
So as the filter becomes longer and
as its smoothing effect increases,
the price we pay in terms of computational
resources and memory are higher.
So we might not like that and we might
want to see whether there's a smarter way
to achieve the same effect without using
up so much in terms of computer power.
Let's look at the equation for
the moving average,
it's just one over capital m,
times the sum of input samples from
m to n minus capital m plus now
we can split this into two parts.
We have the first term, which is one
over capital M times the current input,
plus 1 over capital M,
times the sum of past input samples
from m minus 1 to m
minus capital M plus 1.
And this is the sum of
capital M minus 1 terms.
So the second term here looks suspiciously
close to the moving average computed this
time over capital M minus 1 point, so 1
point less than before, and delayed by 1.
So it's close, but
it's not quite the same thing,
so let's look at ways to
formalize this relationship.
To do so, we first write out the standard
equation for the moving average filter.
Which we have seen before,
so nothing new here.
Now we try and compute the delayed output,
so y of capital M
of n minus 1 is 1 over capital
M times the sum from k
that goes to 0 to capital M minus 1,
of x of n minus 1 minus k.
We can rearrange the index
of the signal like so and
now this plus one that affects only
the summation index can be propagated to
the summation range and we have that
if we delay the moving average by one.
We basically just effect the range of
the summation that now goes from one to M,
instead of from 0 to N minus 1.
Okay, now let's look at the formula for
the moving average over M- 1 point and
this is just a moving average so
1 over capital M- 1 times
the sum from k that goes to 0
to capital M- 2 of n of x- k.
And now we do the same,
we try to delay this by 1 and
again this delay will propagate
to this summation arranged and
we will have the sum that goes now
from k = 1 to capital M minus 1.
So, formula for the moving average
over capital M points and here,
formula for the moving average
over n- 1 points delayed by 1.
All right, but now if we take the sum
of the input from 0 to M minus 1,
we can split this as a current sample
plus N minus 2 samples in the past.
And so
this part here corresponds to this and
this part here corresponds to this so
we can.
Small terms and we obtain
the relationship that we were looking for
between the moving average
over capital M points, and
the moving average over capital
M minus 1 points delayed by 1.
So we rearrange the terms,
and we have that,
the moving average over capital M points
in n Is equal to capital M minus 1 over M,
times the moving average
over n minus 1 points,
delayed by 1, plus 1 over M times x of n.
So if we want to write this a little bit
better, we define a parameter lambda as
M minus 1 over M, and
we have this final relationship here.